README.md, before:

DRC's TurboVNC Build Scripts
=============================

These scripts are used to build the "official" TurboVNC binaries, which work
on any Linux platform with GLIB 2.5 and later, as well as Windows XP and later
and OS X 10.7 and later.

See **BUILDING.md** in the TurboVNC source for basic build requirements.
Additional build requirements for these scripts are listed below.


Build Environment: Linux
------------------------

Recommended distro:  Red Hat or CentOS Enterprise Linux 5 64-bit

Install all software necessary to build a 32-bit and a 64-bit version of
TurboVNC (both 32-bit and 64-bit libjpeg-turbo SDK's should be installed in
their default locations.  Refer to **BUILDING.md** for more information.)

The libjpeg-turbo JNI JAR files should be installed under
**/opt/libjpeg-turbo-jni**.


Build Environment: OS X
-----------------------

OS X 10.7 (Lion) or later required

CMake should be installed somewhere in the `PATH`.  The version in MacPorts
(<http://www.MacPorts.org>) works, or just install the CMake application from
the DMG (<http://www.cmake.org>) and add
**/Applications/CMake.app/Contents/bin** to the `PATH`.

Xcode 4.1.x or later (available at <https://developer.apple.com/downloads> --
Apple ID required.)  The build scripts need this in order to produce TurboVNC
binaries that are backward compatible with OS X 10.7.  The Xcode Command Line
Tools should be installed.

The libjpeg-turbo SDK should be installed in its default location.


Build Environment: Windows
--------------------------

Windows XP 64-bit or later required

CMake (the Windows native version, not the Cygwin version) should be installed
somewhere in the `PATH`.

The directory containing the 64-bit Visual C++ compiler
(e.g. **c:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio 10.0\VC\bin\amd64**)
should be listed in the `PATH` environment variable.

The directory containing the 64-bit Windows SDK libraries
(e.g. **C:\Program Files\Microsoft SDKs\Windows\v7.0\Lib\x64**)
should be listed in the `LIB` environment variable.

The directories containing the Visual C++ and Windows SDK header files
(e.g. **c:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio 10.0\VC\include** and
**C:\Program Files\Microsoft SDKs\Windows\v7.0\include**)
should be listed in the `INCLUDE` environment variable.

The official TurboVNC binaries are generated using the Windows SDK for
Windows 7 and .NET Framework 3.5 SP1
(<http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=3138>),
which contains Visual C++ 10.0, but any reasonably modern version of Visual
C++ and the Windows SDK should work.

Install all other software necessary to build a 32-bit and a 64-bit version of
TurboVNC (both 32-bit and 64-bit libjpeg-turbo SDK's for Visual C++ should be
installed in their default locations.  Refer to **BUILDING.md** for more
information.)


Build Procedure
---------------

Executing

    buildvnc [branch/tag]

(where branch/tag is, for instance, "2.0.x" and defaults to "master") will
generate both a pristine source tarball and binaries for the platform on which
the script is executed.  These are placed under
**$HOME/src/vnc.nightly/YYYYMMDD/files**, where YYYYMMDD is a build number
based on today's date.  If the build is successful, then a sym link will be
created from **$HOME/src/vnc.nightly/latest** to
**$HOME/src/vnc.nightly/YYYYMMDD**.

Once a full build is completed on one platform, then you can use the existing
source tarball to build binaries on other platforms by running `buildvnc -e`
(assuming that **$HOME/src** is a shared directory.)

NOTE: On Windows, `buildvnc` should be run from inside an MSYS shell.  If you
are mounting your home directory as a drive letter (e.g. **H:**), then set the
`HOME` environment variable to the MinGW path for that drive (e.g. **/h**)
prior to running `buildvnc`.

Run `buildvnc -h` for usage information.


Signing the Linux Packages
--------------------------

To sign the RPMs and DEBs using a GPG key, create a file called **gpgsign** in
the same directory as **buildvnc**, and include the following contents in the
file:

    GPG_KEY_NAME={full name of GPG key to use (as listed in 'gpg --list-keys')}
    GPG_KEY_ID={key ID of GPG key to use (as listed in 'gpg --list-keys')}
    GPG_KEY_PASS={password for GPG key}

[debsigs](https://gitlab.com/debsigs/debsigs/tags) must be installed and in the
`PATH`.


Signing the Windows Packages
----------------------------

To sign the Windows installers using a code signing certificate, create a file
called **mssign** in the same directory as **buildvnc**, and include the
following contents in the file:

    MS_KEY_FILE={full MinGW path to a .pfx file containing the code signing certificate}
    MS_KEY_PASS={password for certificate}

**signtool** (available in the Windows SDK) must be in the `PATH`.


Signing the Java TurboVNC Viewer JAR File
-----------------------------------------

To sign the Java TurboVNC Viewer JAR file using an official code signing
certificate, create a file called **jarsign** under **setupscripts/**,
and include the following contents in the file:

    JAVA_KEYSTORE={value of JAVA_KEYSTORE CMake variable}
    JAVA_KEYSTORE_PASS={value of JAVA_KEYSTORE_PASS CMake variable}
    JAVA_KEYSTORE_TYPE={value of JAVA_KEYSTORE_TYPE CMake variable}
    JAVA_KEY_ALIAS={value of JAVA_KEY_ALIAS CMake variable}
    JAVA_KEY_PASS={value of JAVA_KEY_PASS CMake variable}
    JAVA_TSA_URL={value of JAVA_TSA_URL CMake variable}
    JAVA_TSA_ALG={value of JAVA_TSA_ALG CMake variable}

The CMake variables in question are documented in **java/CMakeLists.txt** in
the TurboVNC source.  If the **jarsign** file is not present, then the Java
TurboVNC Viewer JAR will be signed using a self-signed certificate, which is
adequate for development purposes but which cannot be easily used in a
production environment.

Commit message:

Support Mac app/package/DMG signing

README.md, after:

DRC's TurboVNC Build Scripts
=============================

These scripts are used to build the "official" TurboVNC binaries, which work
on any Linux platform with GLIB 2.5 and later, as well as Windows XP and later
and OS X 10.7 and later.

See **BUILDING.md** in the TurboVNC source for basic build requirements.
Additional build requirements for these scripts are listed below.


Build Environment: Linux
------------------------

Recommended distro:  Red Hat or CentOS Enterprise Linux 5 64-bit

Install all software necessary to build a 32-bit and a 64-bit version of
TurboVNC (both 32-bit and 64-bit libjpeg-turbo SDK's should be installed in
their default locations.  Refer to **BUILDING.md** for more information.)

The libjpeg-turbo JNI JAR files should be installed under
**/opt/libjpeg-turbo-jni**.


Build Environment: OS X
-----------------------

OS X 10.7 (Lion) or later required

CMake should be installed somewhere in the `PATH`.  The version in MacPorts
(<http://www.MacPorts.org>) works, or just install the CMake application from
the DMG (<http://www.cmake.org>) and add
**/Applications/CMake.app/Contents/bin** to the `PATH`.

Xcode 4.1.x or later (available at <https://developer.apple.com/downloads> --
Apple ID required.)  The build scripts need this in order to produce TurboVNC
binaries that are backward compatible with OS X 10.7.  The Xcode Command Line
Tools should be installed.

The libjpeg-turbo SDK should be installed in its default location.


Build Environment: Windows
--------------------------

Windows XP 64-bit or later required

CMake (the Windows native version, not the Cygwin version) should be installed
somewhere in the `PATH`.

The directory containing the 64-bit Visual C++ compiler
(e.g. **c:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio 10.0\VC\bin\amd64**)
should be listed in the `PATH` environment variable.

The directory containing the 64-bit Windows SDK libraries
(e.g. **C:\Program Files\Microsoft SDKs\Windows\v7.0\Lib\x64**)
should be listed in the `LIB` environment variable.

The directories containing the Visual C++ and Windows SDK header files
(e.g. **c:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio 10.0\VC\include** and
**C:\Program Files\Microsoft SDKs\Windows\v7.0\include**)
should be listed in the `INCLUDE` environment variable.

The official TurboVNC binaries are generated using the Windows SDK for
Windows 7 and .NET Framework 3.5 SP1
(<http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=3138>),
which contains Visual C++ 10.0, but any reasonably modern version of Visual
C++ and the Windows SDK should work.

Install all other software necessary to build a 32-bit and a 64-bit version of
TurboVNC (both 32-bit and 64-bit libjpeg-turbo SDK's for Visual C++ should be
installed in their default locations.  Refer to **BUILDING.md** for more
information.)


Build Procedure
---------------

Executing

    buildvnc [branch/tag]

(where branch/tag is, for instance, "2.0.x" and defaults to "master") will
generate both a pristine source tarball and binaries for the platform on which
the script is executed.  These are placed under
**$HOME/src/vnc.nightly/YYYYMMDD/files**, where YYYYMMDD is a build number
based on today's date.  If the build is successful, then a sym link will be
created from **$HOME/src/vnc.nightly/latest** to
**$HOME/src/vnc.nightly/YYYYMMDD**.

Once a full build is completed on one platform, then you can use the existing
source tarball to build binaries on other platforms by running `buildvnc -e`
(assuming that **$HOME/src** is a shared directory.)

NOTE: On Windows, `buildvnc` should be run from inside an MSYS shell.  If you
are mounting your home directory as a drive letter (e.g. **H:**), then set the
`HOME` environment variable to the MinGW path for that drive (e.g. **/h**)
prior to running `buildvnc`.

Run `buildvnc -h` for usage information.


Signing the Linux Packages
--------------------------

To sign the RPMs and DEBs using a GPG key, create a file called **gpgsign** in
the same directory as **buildvnc**, and include the following contents in the
file:

    GPG_KEY_NAME={full name of GPG key to use (as listed in 'gpg --list-keys')}
    GPG_KEY_ID={key ID of GPG key to use (as listed in 'gpg --list-keys')}
    GPG_KEY_PASS={password for GPG key}

[debsigs](https://gitlab.com/debsigs/debsigs/tags) must be installed and in the
`PATH`.

Signing the Mac App/Package/DMG
-------------------------------

To sign the Mac TurboVNC Viewer app, installer package, and DMG, create a file
called **macsign** under **setupscripts/**, and include the following contents
in the file:

    OSX_APP_CERT_NAME={full name of Mac Developer ID Application certficate (in the macOS keychain) used to sign the app & DMG}
    OSX_INST_CERT_NAME={full name of Mac Developer ID Installer certificate (in the macOS keychain) used to sign the installer package}

macOS 10.11 "El Capitan" or later is required in order to sign the Mac
app/package/DMG.

Signing the Windows Packages
----------------------------

To sign the Windows installers using a code signing certificate, create a file
called **mssign** in the same directory as **buildvnc**, and include the
following contents in the file:

    MS_KEY_FILE={full MinGW path to a .pfx file containing the code signing certificate}
    MS_KEY_PASS={password for certificate}

**signtool** (available in the Windows SDK) must be in the `PATH`.


Signing the Java TurboVNC Viewer JAR File
-----------------------------------------

To sign the Java TurboVNC Viewer JAR file using an official code signing
certificate, create a file called **jarsign** under **setupscripts/**,
and include the following contents in the file:

    JAVA_KEYSTORE={value of JAVA_KEYSTORE CMake variable}
    JAVA_KEYSTORE_PASS={value of JAVA_KEYSTORE_PASS CMake variable}
    JAVA_KEYSTORE_TYPE={value of JAVA_KEYSTORE_TYPE CMake variable}
    JAVA_KEY_ALIAS={value of JAVA_KEY_ALIAS CMake variable}
    JAVA_KEY_PASS={value of JAVA_KEY_PASS CMake variable}
    JAVA_TSA_URL={value of JAVA_TSA_URL CMake variable}
    JAVA_TSA_ALG={value of JAVA_TSA_ALG CMake variable}

The CMake variables in question are documented in **java/CMakeLists.txt** in
the TurboVNC source.  If the **jarsign** file is not present, then the Java
TurboVNC Viewer JAR will be signed using a self-signed certificate, which is
adequate for development purposes but which cannot be easily used in a
production environment.
